[Music]
your computer allows you to do many
different things and store a lot of
important files so it's important to
protect your computer and keep it
running smoothly one of the biggest
computer threats is malware malware is
any type of software that is designed to
damage your computer or gain
unauthorized access to your personal
information
this can include viruses spyware trojan
horses and other types of software any
computer can get malware although if
you're using a Mac it's less likely to
protect your computer you should install
an anti-virus program such as Kaspersky
Norton or BitDefender this helps prevent
viruses from being installed and it also
lets you scan your computer and remove
any viruses that are found keep in mind
no antivirus program is perfect to stay
safe you should avoid suspicious-looking
ads or downloads run regular updates to
your antivirus program and also run
updates to your operating system to keep
your computer running smoothly Windows
has a couple of tools that you can use
disk cleanup and disk Defragmenter you
can access these from your Start menu by
going to all programs accessories and
then system tools this cleanup helps you
free up space on your hard drive by
scanning your computer for temporary
files and other files that can be
deleted
disk Defragmenter rearranges the data on
your hard drive to help your computer
run faster and more efficiently
if something bad does happen to your
computer you could lose all of your
important files to prevent this you
should backup your files regularly one
way to do this is to buy an external
hard drive and copy your files to it to
make the backup process as easy as
possible
you can use software like Windows backup
or Time Machine if you're using a Mac of
course if something happens to your
computer and your hard drive you'll
still lose all of your files for more
security you can use an online backup
service like Mozy or Carbonite you may
have to pay a monthly fee to use these
services but the advantage is that your
files will stay safe in the cloud no
matter what happens to your computer
following these tips can help you
protect your computer and ensure that
all of your important files will be
there when you need them